---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Reflections
categories: [markdown, ap]
title: Big Idea 5 Reflection
---

# 5.1 Beneficial and Harmful Effects
1. Beneficial Effects:<br>
- The internet and computing allows us to be able to have access to almost any piece of information we want
- We are able to collaborate and talk with others who we not be able(worldwide) to thanks to the internet
- We are able to do a lot more important tasks online, such as filing for important government appointments, accessing bank funds, and applying to colleges, instead of having to wait in longer lines
Harmful Effects:<br>
- A lot of sources may be wanting to get viewership, so they may stretch the truth or include more opinionated information to appeal to one side in order to retain audience
- People can be more mean on the internet because they are not face to face with the person, so they may act different from how they would act in person
- While we can do more important tasks online, the abundance of important information makes it possible for hackers to steal and take away important information from people
2. I think dopamine issues are real. Video games and social media can be good ways for us to connect with our friends, have fun, and take a break from life, but it is important to have balance in life. If we let video games and social media control our life, we will not be able to live out the other experiences in life. While these forms of enjoyment can be useful, it is important to remember that there are many facets of life and many things to enjoy. So, it is important to participate in activities outdoors. 
With many 

# 5.2 Digital Divide
1. In a digital world, you can empower yourself by using technology and learning about technology. There are many facets to technology, from hardware to software. There are many avenues to be able to learn, as even if one does not have access to technology, libraries and schools may have computers to use technology and empower people. Additionally, even when people have access to some technology, libraries can give access to more complex technology, like 3-D printers.
2. To help others who are not empowered with technology, people with technology can do things to empower others. For example, if an empowered individual got a new laptop, they could donate their old laptop to those who do not have as much technology. Something we could do at Del Norte is organize volunteering to help teach students about technology and be able to contribute to efforts which would allow people to have a greater access to technology.
3. Paper and red tape can block digital empowerment if it used full time. Before COVID, very few of my classes used computers on a daily basis. After COVID, pretty much all of my classes used computers. There are some barriers to digital empowerment if classes constantly use paper or red tape. However, if classes mix both computers and paper lessons and work, it will be beneficial to improving digital empowerment. While it is important to retain and build skills with both paper and the digital world, has they both give students the option to learn in their preferred method, focusing too much on one could be harmful.

## Questions From Canvas
1. I think my project will have some beneficial impacts.<br>
- Educate people about sports
- Help me and my team learn more about coding
- Entertain users with interactive site<br>
Potential Harms:<br>
- If not updated frequently, the website could provide incorrect statistics
2. Pros of Internet Blocker:<br>
- Ensures that students go on school friendly sites
- Helps students pay attention during school by blocking certain sites and social medias<br>
Cons of Internet Blockers:<br>
- Some sites for research are not able to be used 
- Some Computer Science sites are not available because they haven't been verified
- Harder for students to be able to study everything at school<br>
3. With the digital divide, it can be harder for people without access to technology to be able to have access to the newest advancements and news on their devices. This would put these people at a disadvantage when trying to get into jobs or schools. Additionally, with lots of of complex technology, it could be very hard to be able to know everything. So, we would spend more and more time on our computers, which can be bad for our health and cause people to get more and more distracted.

# 5.3 Computing Bias
- Different programs have different purposes, so there are different algorithms to do different things. <mark>It can be harmful</mark> for apps to have a certain audience because they want to focus on having as much attention as possible, so they can end up being addictive.
- Virtual assistants may have inherent bias because we usually view that women's voices are more comforting to a person.
- Algorithms from TikTok can be meant to keep the user on the app for as long as possible.
- I think the <mark>HP bias was unintentional.</mark> The owner of the computer may have thought of it as intentional. However, there were probably biases within the testing algorithm because they may not have sampled as many black or dark-skinned people. This is harmful not only for the user, but also for the company, since they will be marked racist. It is important to be able to have a diversity on user testing because it will be necessary for companies to be accommodating of a variety of users, which will benefit both the consumer and the company.

# 5.4 Crowdsourcing
- In CSP, with a wide variety of students in the class, we are lucky to be able to have lots of different viewpoints. This will help us develop code which is more accommodating of all people. A crowdsourcing idea which I have for CSP is creating an open source code repository for people to edit. This can be a copy of my own repository, and with the advice of many students, I will be able to see different ways to make my code more efficient. I could initiate this by advertising this during class or on Slack in order to be able to communicate with other students to inform them of the open source code. 
- A crowdsourcing idea which I have is by having a form to be able take in consumer input on my Create Performance Task site. This would be able to be requested by anyone on Del Norte and they would answer questions about how they like my program and what could be done to improve it. I would do this because I would be able to get a lot of information about how to better meet the needs of the consumer. This will allow me to see viewpoints I did not see and have an overall better functioning program.
- At Night at the Museum, it would probably be best to supply a form which will allow people to provide their input on my program. I will have a form link at the end of my higher or lower game in order to get user input. I would probably asked for the rating of the game and also add comments or features which they believe they could improve the program. I could create a graph representing the rating of my program and also make outlines and potentially change my code to incorporate the user input into my program.